## First Page

Since, there is a scarcity of dataset, we decided to generate examples synthetically using LLMs. We implemented it by passing existing data through a data augmentation pipeline. We used three models for this purpose, **Uncensored LLaMa model** from dolphin that acts as **paraphrasing agent** followed by **Roberta classifier** for classifying generated examples as toxic/non-toxic and finally **Cross Encoder** for checking the semantic similarity between the produced toxic and non toxic comment.

## Next Page

First, each example from paradetox dataset is passed through the paraphrasing agent to generate a new example. Since LLMs suffer from hallucination, we need to check the toxicity levels of the generated toxic and non toxic comments. For this purpose we employ Roberta toxicity classifier, which was trained on jigsaw toxicity dataset, to classify the comments as toxic or non toxic. The classifier outputs the value between 0 and 1, 0 indicating non toxic comment and 1 indicating toxic comment. The classifier checks the toxicity level of toxic comment and if the toxicity level is below 0.4, it drops the comment and goes to previous step to generate new example pair and then it check the toxicity level of non toxic comment and if the toxicity level of non toxic comment is above 0.2 then it goes back to previous step to generate new example. After successfully verifying the toxicity levels, the generated example is then passed to Cross Encoder mode, which is trained on Natural Language Inference datasets, to identify the semantic similarity between the generated toxic comment and its non toxic counterpart. It outputs a value between 0 and 1. If semantic similarity is greater than 0.6, then the example is then appended to the base dataset.