## Introduction

As of the end of 2024, NVD has a massive backlog of unanalysed security vulnerabilities. This is very bad because hackers can use these vulnerabilities to perform malicious actions. The rate at which bugs are being reported exceeded the rate at which they are being fixed, and with the introduction of AI into software engineering, these rates are only expected to grow. So there's a need for a semi-automatic/automatic software that can analyse the code, find the buggy code and generate a patch to fix it. Automatic Program Repair is the domain that addresses these concerns. In this seminar, we will explore three different approaches for APR, out of which one approach specifically focuses on fixing security vulnerabilities and remaining two approaches demonstrate general bug fixes. The three approaches are NMT, CoT and Finetuning an LLM.

### NMT

Neural machine translation is a sequence to sequence translation technique from NLP, that takes an input sequence in one language and produces an equivalent output sequence in another language. NMT is the engine that powers Google Translate.

## CURE
### Limitations of traditional APR techniques
Early APR techniques were mostly based on heuristics and templates. Heuristic approaches generally don't have a proper mathematical model. All they do is to keep guessing the fix until the program gets fixed. And most of the time when they are asked to fix a bug, they simply deleted the piece of code causing the bug. Later came the era of template based APR techniques. These techniques are good and they work well as long as the bug is among the set of templates the model knows about. If the bug deviates from the known templates, template based APR techniques fail. Moreover, It is not an easy task to generate a generic template for bugs.

Early NMT approaches like CoCoNuT (Context Aware Code representation for Numeral Translation) have shown significant improvement in performance compared to template based approach. But they suffer from a new set of major problems like massive search space and out of vocabulary problem.

CURE tries to solve these two problems by introducing code aware search strategy to address massive search space problem and Subword Tokenization to address Out of Vocabulary problem. It also emphasises the importance of context in fixing the code. It pretrains a Programming Language model on large software codebases, enabling it to understand the semantics of the code before even trying to fix a bug. It then fuses this knowledge with NMT techniques, making the resulting model context aware. So, What is tokenization? ML models can't understand english language. They only understand mathematical data. So we map the vocabulary of a language to certain numbers and these numbers are called tokens. The process of transforming the given set of words to corresponding tokens is called tokenization.

Tokenization is of three types: Word level tokenization, Character level tokenization and Subword tokenization. In word level tokenization, every word is considered as a token. it gives rise to a massive vocabulary, but when transforming words into tokens, it is convenient and less computationally intensive. But programming languages allow developers to use any name for an identifier. For ex, a developer may use AbstractUserManagerFactory as a variable name, which may not exist in the vocabulary of the model causing out of vocabulary problem. when out of vocabulary problem occurs, the model either fails or masks the unknown word with unknown token. Large number of these unknown tokens causes loss of context. And there is character level tokenization where each character is aa token, for example, in english language, each letter is a token => 26 tokens. Vocabulary size is small but is more computationally intensive to tokenize. This solves the OOV problem but is infeasible. We need to find a middle ground between these two approaches. There exist a third approach called subword tokenization where initially, each character is added to the vocabulary and later most frequently occuring subwords are also added to the vocabulary. So when a model encounters unknown word, in the worst cast, it can use all the characters to form the word. So we can mitigate the OOV problem. Ex: BPE (BytePairEncoding.)